and introduction to the Book of Numbers.
Numbers was written by Moses.
He began the writing in the wilderness of Sinai
and completed it on the plains of Moab.
The narrative covers a period of 38 years and nine months,
from 1512 to 1473 BCE, when Moses finished the writing.
Numbers gets its name from the two times
that Moses numbered the people, first at Mount Sinai,
and later on the plains of Moab.
The book highlights Jehovah's ability to lead his people.
It underscores the need to obey God's appointed representatives,
and it illustrates the importance of strong faith.
Numbers has 36 chapters.
In chapters 1-4, Israelite males 20 years old and up,
except for the Levites, are registered for the army.
The Levites are set apart to assist the priests.
Chapters 5-9 discuss marital faithfulness, quarantining,
and service as a Nazarite.
In chapter 10, the Israelites pull away from the wilderness of Sinai
by their tribal divisions.
In chapter 11, the people complain about the manna,
a miraculous food provided by Jehovah.
In the next chapter, Miriam and Aaron speak against Moses.
For this, Miriam is temporarily struck with leprosy
and quarantined for seven days.
In chapters 13 and 14, 12 Israelite chieftains,
one from each tribe, are sent to spy out the land of Canaan.
Ten spies bring back a negative report,
and the people want to return to Egypt.
For this gross lack of faith,
the Israelites must wander in the wilderness for 40 years
until that generation has died.
Did you know Joshua and Caleb were the only spies
who had faith in Jehovah.
So they were the only spies who would enter the Promised Land,
and they did.
Caleb inherited the field and settlements of Hebron.
Joshua's inheritance was in the mountainous region of Ephraim,
where he died at the age of 110.
Chapters 15-17 discuss the various offerings for sins,
as well as the rebellion and execution of Korah,
and their supporters.
In chapter 21, the people again complain about the manor,
calling it contemptible bread.
In chapters 22-24, Moabite King Balak hires Balam,
a greedy non-Israelite to curse Israel.
But Jehovah makes Balam pronounce blessings.
In chapter 25, many of God's people commit sexual immorality
with Moabite women.
This leads to idolatry,
and the death of 24,000 Israelites by a scourge from God.
In the next chapter, Moses takes the second census.
In chapter 27, the daughters of Zalofah had tell Moses
that they have no brother to carry on the family inheritance.
Jehovah directs that in such situations,
a daughter may have that privilege.
Then God commands Moses to ascend a mountain in the region
of Abraham to view the Promised Land.
Because Moses is soon to die,
Jehovah tells him to appoint Joshua to lead Israel into Canaan.
Chapters 31-36 discuss the apportioning of Canaan
and other matters as the Israelites prepared
across the Jordan River.
As you read the book of Numbers,
note how Jehovah patiently guides his people.
See why we need to obey those appointed to take the lead among us,
and reflect on our need for strong faith
as we approach a far greater Promised Land,
the new world under God's Kingdom.